.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "ADVANCED_CONNECTIONS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
Advanced_Connections \- None
.SH "CONNECTING TO A REPLICA SET"


Connecting to a
.B replica set
is much like connecting to a standalone MongoDB server. Simply specify the replica set name using the
.B ?replicaSet=myreplset
URI option.

.nf
#include <bson.h>
#include <mongoc.h>

int
main (int   argc,
      char *argv[])
{
    mongoc_client_t *client;

    mongoc_init ();

    /* Create our MongoDB Client */
    client = mongoc_client_new ("mongodb://host01:27017,host02:27017,host03:27017/?replicaSet=myreplset");

    /* Do some work */
    /* TODO */

    /* Clean up */
    mongoc_client_destroy (client);
    mongoc_cleanup ();

    return 0;
}
.fi

.B NOTE
.RS
Multiple hostnames can be specified in the MongoDB connection string URI, with a comma separating hosts in the seed list.

It is recommended to use a seed list of members of the replica set to allow the driver to connect to any node.

.RE

.SH "CONNECTING TO A SHARDED CLUSTER"


To connect to a
.B sharded cluster
, specify the
.B mongos
nodes the client should connect to. The C Driver will automatically detect that it has connected to a
.B mongos
sharding server.

If more than one hostname is specified, a seed list will be created to attempt failover between the
.B mongos
instances.

.B NOTE
.RS
Specifying the
.B replicaSet
parameter when connecting to a
.B mongos
sharding server is invalid.

.RE

.nf
#include <bson.h>
#include <mongoc.h>

int
main (int   argc,
      char *argv[])
{
    mongoc_client_t *client;

    mongoc_init ();

    /* Create our MongoDB Client */
    client = mongoc_client_new ("mongodb://myshard01:27017/");

    /* Do something with client ... */

    /* Free the client */
    mongoc_client_destroy (client);

    mongoc_cleanup ();

    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH "CONNECTING TO AN IPV6 ADDRESS"


The MongoDB C Driver will automatically resolve IPv6 addresses from host names. However, to specify an IPv6 address directly, wrap the address in
.B []
\e&.

.B mongoc_uri_t *uri = mongoc_uri_new ("mongodb://[::1]:27017");

.SH "CONNECTING TO A UNIX DOMAIN SOCKET"


On UNIX\(hylike systems, the C Driver can connect directly to a MongoDB server using a UNIX domain socket. Simply pass the path to the socket, which
.B must
be suffixed with
.B .sock
\e&.

.B mongoc_uri_t *uri = mongoc_uri_new ("mongodb:///tmp/mysocket.sock");

.B NOTE
.RS
Connecting directly to a UNIX domain socket is not a common practice.

.RE

.SH "ADDITIONAL CONNECTION OPTIONS"


A variety of connection options for the MongoDB URI can be found
.B here
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.