.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "CLIENT_SIDE_DOCUMENT_MATCHING" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
Client_Side_Document_Matching \- None
.SH "BASIC DOCUMENT MATCHING (DEPRECATED)"


.B NOTE
.RS
This feature will be removed in version 2.0.
.RE

The MongoDB C driver supports matching a subset of the MongoDB query specification on the client.

Currently, basic numeric, string, subdocument, and array equality,
.B $gt
,
.B $gte
,
.B $lt
,
.B $lte
,
.B $in
,
.B $nin
,
.B $ne
,
.B $exists
,
.B $type
,
.B $and
, and
.B $or
are supported. As this is not the same implementation as the MongoDB server, some inconsistencies may occur. Please file a bug if you find such a case.

The following example performs a basic query against a BSON document.


The following example shows how to process a BSON stream from
.B stdin
and match it against a query. This can be useful if you need to perform simple matching against
.B mongodump
backups.


To test this, perform a
.B mongodump
of a single collection and pipe it to the program.

.B $ 
.nf
MongoDB shell version: 2.6.1
connecting to: test
WriteResult({ "nInserted" : 1 })
bye
.fi
.B $ 
.B { "_id" : { "$oid" : "537afac9a70e5b4d556153bc" }, "hello" : "world" }


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.