.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_UPDATE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_update() \- This function shall update documents in collection that match selector.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_update (mongoc_collection_t          *collection,
                          mongoc_update_flags_t         flags,
                          const bson_t                 *selector,
                          const bson_t                 *update,
                          const mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern,
                          bson_error_t                 *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A bitwise or of
.B mongoc_update_flags_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
selector
A
.B bson_t
containing the query to match documents for updating.
.LP
.TP
.B
update
A
.B bson_t
containing the update to perform.
.LP
.TP
.B
write_concern
A
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall update documents in
.B collection
that match
.B selector
\e&.

By default, updates only a single document. Set flags to
.B MONGOC_UPDATE_MULTI_UPDATE
to update multiple documents.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if successful, otherwise false and error is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.