.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_SOCKET_RECV" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_socket_recv() \- This function performs a recv() on the underlying socket.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_socket_recv (mongoc_socket_t *sock,
                    void            *buf,
                    size_t           buflen,
                    int              flags,
                    int64_t          expire_at);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
sock
A
.B mongoc_socket_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
buf
A buffer to read into.
.LP
.TP
.B
buflen
A size_t with the number of bytes to receive.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
flags for
.B recv(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
expire_at
A int64_t with the time to expire in monotonic time using
.B bson_get_monotonic_time(3)
, which is in microseconds.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function performs a
.B recv(3)
on the underlying socket.

.SH "RETURNS"

The number of bytes received on success, 0 on stream closed, and \(hy1 if there was a failure and errno is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.