.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_BULK_OPERATION_EXECUTE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_bulk_operation_execute() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
uint32_t
mongoc_bulk_operation_execute (mongoc_bulk_operation_t *bulk,
                               bson_t                  *reply,
                               bson_error_t            *error);
.fi
.fi

This function executes all operations queued into the bulk operation. If
.B ordered
was specified to
.B mongoc_collection_create_bulk_operation(3)
, then forward progress will be stopped upon the first error.

It is only valid to call
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_execute(3)
once. The
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_t
must be destroyed afterwards.

.B NOTE
.RS
.B reply
is always initialized, even upon failure. Callers
.B must
call
.B bson_destroy(3)
to release this potential allocation.
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bulk
A
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

A non\(hyzero
.B hint
of the peer node on success, otherwise
.B 0
and
.B error
is set.

The
.B reply
document counts operations and collects error information. See
.B Bulk Write Operations
for examples.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.