.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_GRIDFS_FIND_ONE_BY_FILENAME" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_gridfs_find_one_by_filename() \- Finds the first file matching the filename specified. If no file could be found, NULL is returned and error is set.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_gridfs_file_t *
mongoc_gridfs_find_one_by_filename (mongoc_gridfs_t *gridfs,
                                    const char      *filename,
                                    bson_error_t    *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
gridfs
A
.B mongoc_gridfs_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
filename
A UTF\(hy8 encoded string containing the filename.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Finds the first file matching the filename specified. If no file could be found,
.B NULL
is returned and error is set.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns a newly allocated
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_t
if successful, otherwise
.B NULL
and error is set. You must free the resulting file with
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.