.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_ENSURE_INDEX" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_ensure_index() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_ensure_index (mongoc_collection_t      *collection,
                                const bson_t             *keys,
                                const mongoc_index_opt_t *opt,
                                bson_error_t             *error)
   BSON_GNUC_DEPRECATED_FOR (mongoc_collection_create_index);
.fi
.fi

.SH "DEPRECATED"

.B NOTE
.RS
This function is deprecated and should not be used in new code.
.RE

Please use
.B mongoc_collection_create_index(3)
instead.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
keys
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
opt
A mongoc_index_opt_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.