.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_GRIDFS_CREATE_FILE_FROM_STREAM" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_gridfs_create_file_from_stream() \- This function shall create a new mongoc_gridfs_file_t and fill it with the contents of stream. Note that this function will read from stream until End of File, making it bet suited for file-backed streams.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_gridfs_file_t *
mongoc_gridfs_create_file_from_stream (mongoc_gridfs_t          *gridfs,
                                       mongoc_stream_t          *stream,
                                       mongoc_gridfs_file_opt_t *opt);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
gridfs
A
.B mongoc_gridfs_t(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
stream
A
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
opt
A
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_opt_t
to specify file options.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall create a new
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_t
and fill it with the contents of
.B stream
\e&. Note that this function will read from
.B stream
until End of File, making it bet suited for file\(hybacked streams.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.