.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_RENAME" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_rename() \- This function is a helper to rename an existing collection on a MongoDB server. The name of the collection will also be updated internally so it is safe to continue using this collection after the rename. Additional operations will occur on renamed collection.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_rename (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                          const char          *new_db,
                          const char          *new_name,
                          bool                 drop_target_before_rename,
                          bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
new_db
The name of the new database.
.LP
.TP
.B
new_name
The new name for the collection.
.LP
.TP
.B
drop_target_before_rename
If an existing collection matches the new name, drop it before the rename.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function is a helper to rename an existing collection on a MongoDB server. The name of the collection will also be updated internally so it is safe to continue using this collection after the rename. Additional operations will occur on renamed collection.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the command executed successfully, otherwise false and error is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.