.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_SET_SSL_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_set_ssl_opts() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#ifdef MONGOC_ENABLE_SSL
mongoc_client_set_ssl_opts (mongoc_client_t        *client,
                            const mongoc_ssl_opt_t *opts);
#endif
.fi
.fi

Sets the SSL options to use when connecting to SSL enabled MongoDB servers.

Beginning in version 1.2.0, once a client has any SSL options set, all connections use SSL, even if "ssl=true" is omitted from the MongoDB URI. Before, SSL options were ignored unless "ssl=true" was included in the URI.

Although the
.B mongoc_ssl_opt_t
struct itself is shallow\(hycopied by the client, the strings it points to (
.B pem_file
,
.B pem_pwd
,
.B ca_file
,
.B ca_dir
, and
.B crl_file
) are not copied and must remain valid for the life of the
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.

It is a programming error to call this function on a client from a
.B mongoc_client_pool_t
\e&. Instead, call
.B mongoc_client_pool_set_ssl_opts
on the pool before popping any clients.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B mongoc_ssl_opt_t
\e&. The struct is copied by the client, but the strings it points to are not.
.LP

.SH "AVAILABILITY"

This feature requires that the MongoDB C driver was compiled with
.B \(hy\(hyenable\(hyssl
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.