.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_BULK_OPERATION_UPDATE_ONE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_bulk_operation_update_one() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
void
mongoc_bulk_operation_update_one (mongoc_bulk_operation_t *bulk,
                                  const bson_t            *selector,
                                  const bson_t            *document,
                                  bool                     upsert);
.fi
.fi

This function queues an update as part of a bulk operation. It will only modify a single document on the MongoDB server. This function does not execute the operation. To execute the entirety of the bulk operation call
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_execute(3)
\e&.

.B NOTE
.RS
.B document

.B must only
contain fields whose key starts with
.B $
\e&. See the update document specification for more details.
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bulk
A
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
selector
A
.B bson_t
containing the selector to query.
.LP
.TP
.B
document
A
.B bson_t
containing the update document.
.LP
.TP
.B
upsert
.B true
if an
.B upsert
should be performed.
.LP

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B mongoc_bulk_operation_update(3)


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.