.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_UPDATE_FLAGS_T" "3" "2016\(hy01\(hy14" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_update_flags_t \- Flags for deletion operations
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef enum
{
   MONGOC_UPDATE_NONE         = 0,
   MONGOC_UPDATE_UPSERT       = 1 << 0,
   MONGOC_UPDATE_MULTI_UPDATE = 1 << 1,
} mongoc_update_flags_t;

#define MONGOC_UPDATE_NO_VALIDATE (1U << 31)
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

These flags correspond to the MongoDB wire protocol. They may be bitwise or'd together. The allow for modifying the way an update is performed in the MongoDB server.

.SH "FLAG VALUES"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_UPDATE_NONE
No update flags set.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_UPDATE_UPSERT
If an upsert should be performed.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_UPDATE_MULTI_UPDATE
If more than a single matching document should be updated. By default only the first document is updated.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_UPDATE_NO_VALIDATE
Do not perform client side BSON validations when performing an update. This is useful if you already know your BSON documents are valid.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.