.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_FIND_AND_MODIFY_WITH_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_find_and_modify_with_opts() \- Update and return an object.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_find_and_modify_with_opts (mongoc_collection_t                 *collection,
                                             const bson_t                        *query,
                                             const mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_t *opts,
                                             bson_t                              *reply,
                                             bson_error_t                        *error);
.fi
.fi

.B NOTE
.RS
New in mongoc 1.3.0
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
query
A
.B bson_t
containing the query to locate target document(s).
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
.B find and modify options
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
An optional location for a
.B bson_t
that will be initialized with the result or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Update and return an object.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true on success; false on failure.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

See
.B mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_t


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.