.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_NEXT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_next() \- This function shall iterate the underlying cursor, setting bson to the next document.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_cursor_next (mongoc_cursor_t *cursor,
                    const bson_t   **bson);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
bson
A location for a
.B const bson_t *
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall iterate the underlying cursor, setting
.B bson
to the next document.

This function is a blocking function.

.SH "RETURNS"

This function returns true if a valid bson document was read from the cursor. Otherwise, false if there was an error or the cursor was exhausted.

Errors can be determined with the
.B mongoc_cursor_error(3)
function.

.SH "LIFECYCLE"

The bson objects set in this function are ephemeral and good until the next call. This means that you must copy the returned bson if you wish to retain it beyond the lifetime of a single call to
.B mongoc_cursor_next(3)
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.