.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_COPY" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_copy() \- Performs a deep copy of the collection struct and its configuration. Useful if you intend to call mongoc_collection_set_write_concern, mongoc_collection_set_read_prefs, or mongoc_collection_set_read_concern, and want to preserve an unaltered copy of the struct.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_collection_t *
mongoc_collection_copy (mongoc_collection_t *collection);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Performs a deep copy of the
.B collection
struct and its configuration. Useful if you intend to call
.B mongoc_collection_set_write_concern
,
.B mongoc_collection_set_read_prefs
, or
.B mongoc_collection_set_read_concern
, and want to preserve an unaltered copy of the struct.

This function does
.B not
copy the contents of the collection on the MongoDB server; use the
for that purpose.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_collection_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_collection_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.