.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_CLONE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_clone() \- This function shall create a copy of a mongoc_cursor_t. The cloned cursor will be reset to the beginning of the query, and therefore the query will be re-executed on the MongoDB server when mongoc_cursor_next() is called.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_cursor_t *
mongoc_cursor_clone (const mongoc_cursor_t *cursor)
   BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall create a copy of a
.B mongoc_cursor_t
\e&. The cloned cursor will be reset to the beginning of the query, and therefore the query will be re\(hyexecuted on the MongoDB server when
.B mongoc_cursor_next(3)
is called.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_cursor_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_cursor_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.

.B NOTE
.RS
Failure to handle the result of this function is a programming error.
.RE


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.