.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_STREAM_WRITEV" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_stream_writev() \- The mongoc_stream_writev() function shall perform a write
to a mongoc_stream_t. It's modeled on the
API and semantics of writev(), though the parameters map only
loosely.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_stream_writev (mongoc_stream_t *stream,
                      mongoc_iovec_t  *iov,
                      size_t           iovcnt,
                      int32_t          timeout_msec);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
stream
A
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iov
A vector of
.B mongoc_iovec_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iovcnt
The number of items in
.B iov
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
timeout_msec
The number of milliseconds to block before indicating failure, or 0 for non\(hyblocking. Negative values indicate the default timeout.
.LP

The
.B mongoc_stream_writev(3)
function shall perform a write
to a
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&. It's modeled on the
API and semantics of
.B writev(3)
, though the parameters map only
loosely.

.SH "RETURNS"

The number of bytes written on success, or
.B \(hy1
upon failure and
.B errno
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.