.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CURSOR_SET_MAX_AWAIT_TIME_MS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_cursor_set_max_await_time_ms() \- The maximum amount of time for the server to wait on new documents to satisfy a tailable cursor query. Only applies if the cursor is created from mongoc_collection_find with the query flags MONGOC_QUERY_TAILABLE_CURSOR and MONGOC_QUERY_AWAIT_DATA, and the server is MongoDB 3.2 or later. See the documentation for maxTimeMS and the "getMore" command.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
void
mongoc_cursor_set_max_await_time_ms (mongoc_cursor_t *cursor,
                                     uint32_t         max_await_time_ms);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
cursor
A
.B mongoc_cursor_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
max_await_time_ms
A timeout in milliseconds.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The maximum amount of time for the server to wait on new documents to satisfy a tailable cursor query. Only applies if the cursor is created from
.B mongoc_collection_find
with the
.B query flags
MONGOC_QUERY_TAILABLE_CURSOR and MONGOC_QUERY_AWAIT_DATA, and the server is MongoDB 3.2 or later. See
.B the documentation for maxTimeMS and the "getMore" command
\e&.

The
.B max_await_time_ms
cannot be changed after the first call to
.B mongoc_cursor_next
\e&.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B Tailable Cursors.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.