.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_STATS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_stats() \- This function is a helper to retrieve statistics about the collection.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_stats (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                         const bson_t        *options,
                         bson_t              *reply,
                         bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
options
An optional
.B bson_t
containing extra options to pass to the
.B collStats
command.
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
An optional location for a
.B bson_t
to store the result.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function is a helper to retrieve statistics about the collection.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if successful

.B reply
is always initialized to simplfiy memory handling.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.