.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_SET_WRITE_CONCERN" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_set_write_concern() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
void
mongoc_client_set_write_concern (mongoc_client_t              *client,
                                 const mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern);
.fi
.fi

Sets the write concern for the client. This only affects future operations, collections, and databases inheriting from
.B client
\e&.

The default write concern is MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_DEFAULT: the driver blocks awaiting basic acknowledgment of write operations from MongoDB. This is the correct write concern for the great majority of applications.

It is a programming error to call this function on a client from a
.B mongoc_client_pool_t
\e&. For pooled clients, set the write concern with the
.B MongoDB URI
instead.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
write_concern
A
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
\e&.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.