.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_GET_DATABASE_NAMES" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_get_database_names() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
char **
mongoc_client_get_database_names (mongoc_client_t *client,
                                  bson_error_t    *error);
.fi
.fi

This function queries the MongoDB server for a list of known databases.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

A
.B NULL
terminated vector of
.B NULL\(hybyte
terminated strings. The result should be freed with
.B bson_strfreev(3)
\e&.

.B NULL
is returned upon failure and
.B error
is set.

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.nf
{
   bson_error_t error;
   char **strv;
   unsigned i;

   if ((strv = mongoc_client_get_collection_names (client, &error))) {
      for (i = 0; strv [i]; i++)
         printf ("%s\en", strv [i]);
      bson_strfreev (strv);
   } else {
      fprintf (stderr, "Command failed: %s\en", error.message);
   }
}
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.