.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_URI_NEW" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_uri_new() \- Parses a string containing a MongoDB style URI connection string.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_uri_t *
mongoc_uri_new (const char *uri_string)
   BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
uri_string
A string containing a URI.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Parses a string containing a MongoDB style URI connection string.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_uri_t
if successful. Otherwise
.B NULL
\e&.

.B NOTE
.RS
Failure to handle the result of this function is a programming error.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"

Examples of some valid MongoDB connection strings can be seen below.

.B "mongodb://localhost/"

.B "mongodb://localhost/?replicaSet=myreplset"

.B "mongodb://myuser:mypass@localhost/"

.B "mongodb://kerberosuser%40EXAMPLE.COM@example.com/?authMechanism=GSSAPI"

.B "mongodb://[::1]:27017/"

.B "mongodb://10.0.0.1:27017,10.0.0.1:27018,[::1]:27019/?ssl=true"

.B "mongodb:///tmp/mongodb\(hy27017.sock"

.B "mongodb://localhost,[::1]/mydb?authSource=mydb"


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.