.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_DATABASE_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_database_t \- MongoDB Database Abstraction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B typedef struct _mongoc_database_t mongoc_database_t;

.B mongoc_database_t
provides access to a MongoDB database. This handle is useful for actions a particular database object. It
.B is not
a container for
.B mongoc_collection_t
structures.

Read preferences and write concerns are inherited from the parent client. They can be overridden with
.B mongoc_database_set_read_prefs(3)
and
.B mongoc_database_set_write_concern(3)
\e&.

.B NOTE
.RS
It is an error to call
.B mongoc_database_destroy(3)
on a
    database that has operations pending. It is required that you release
.B mongoc_cursor_t
structures before calling
.B mongoc_database_destroy
\e&.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"

.nf
#include <mongoc.h>

int
main (int argc,
      char *argv[])
{
   mongoc_database_t *database;
   mongoc_client_t *client;

   mongoc_init ();

   client = mongoc_client_new ("mongodb://localhost/");
   database = mongoc_client_get_database (client, "test");

   mongoc_database_destroy (database);
   mongoc_client_destroy (client);

   mongoc_cleanup ();

   return 0;
}
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.