.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_COMMAND" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_command() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_cursor_t *
mongoc_client_command (mongoc_client_t           *client,
                       const char                *db_name,
                       mongoc_query_flags_t       flags,
                       uint32_t                   skip,
                       uint32_t                   limit,
                       uint32_t                   batch_size,
                       const bson_t              *query,
                       const bson_t              *fields,
                       const mongoc_read_prefs_t *read_prefs);
.fi
.fi

This function executes a command on the server using the database and command specification provided.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
db_name
The name of the database to run the command on.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A
.B mongoc_query_flags_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
skip
The number of result documents to skip.
.LP
.TP
.B
limit
The maximum number of documents to return.
.LP
.TP
.B
batch_size
The batch size of documents to return from the MongoDB server.
.LP
.TP
.B
query
A
.B bson_t
containing the command specification.
.LP
.TP
.B
fields
An optional
.B bson_t
containing the fields to return in result documents.
.LP
.TP
.B
read_prefs
An optional
.B mongoc_read_prefs_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

This function will always return a
.B mongoc_cursor_t
if valid parameters are passed.

The cursor should be freed with
.B mongoc_cursor_destroy(3)
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.