.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_GET_COLLECTION" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_get_collection() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_collection_t *
mongoc_client_get_collection (mongoc_client_t *client,
                              const char      *db,
                              const char      *collection);
.fi
.fi

Get a newly allocated
.B mongoc_collection_t
for the collection named
.B collection
in the database named
.B db
\e&.

.B NOTE
.RS
Collections are automatically created on the MongoDB server upon insertion of the first document. There is no need to create a collection manually.
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
db
The name of the database containing the collection.
.LP
.TP
.B
collection
The name of the collection.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_collection_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_collection_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.