.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_MATCHER_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_matcher_t \- Client-side document matching abstraction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef struct _mongoc_matcher_t mongoc_matcher_t;
.fi
.fi

.B mongoc_matcher_t
provides a reduced\(hyinterface for client\(hyside matching of BSON documents.

It can perform the basics such as $in, $nin, $eq, $neq, $gt, $gte, $lt, and $lte.

.B NOTE
.RS
.B mongoc_matcher_t
does not currently support the full spectrum of query operations that the MongoDB server supports.
.RE

.SH "DEPRECATED"

.B NOTE
.RS
.B mongoc_matcher_t
is deprecated and will be removed in version 2.0.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
#include <bcon.h>
#include <bson.h>
#include <mongoc.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int
main (int   argc,
      char *argv[])
{
   mongoc_matcher_t *matcher;
   bson_reader_t *reader;
   const bson_t *bson;
   bson_t *spec;
   char *str;
   int fd;

   mongoc_init ();

#ifdef _WIN32
   fd = fileno (stdin);
#else
   fd = STDIN_FILENO;
#endif

   reader = bson_reader_new_from_fd (fd, false);

   spec = BCON_NEW ("hello", "world");
   matcher = mongoc_matcher_new (spec, NULL);

   while ((bson = bson_reader_read (reader, NULL))) {
      if (mongoc_matcher_match (matcher, bson)) {
         str = bson_as_json (bson, NULL);
         printf ("%s\en", str);
         bson_free (str);
      }
   }

   bson_reader_destroy (reader);
   bson_destroy (spec);

   mongoc_cleanup ();

   return 0;
}
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.