.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_GET_GRIDFS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_get_gridfs() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_gridfs_t *
mongoc_client_get_gridfs (mongoc_client_t *client,
                          const char      *db,
                          const char      *prefix,
                          bson_error_t    *error);
.fi
.fi

The
.B mongoc_client_get_gridfs(3)
function shall create a new
.B mongoc_gridfs_t
\e&. The
.B db
parameter is the name of the database which the gridfs instance should exist in. The
.B prefix
parameter corresponds to the gridfs collection namespacing; its default is "fs", thus the default GridFS collection names are "fs.files" and "fs.chunks".

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
db
The database name.
.LP
.TP
.B
prefix
Optional prefix for gridfs collection names or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

A
.B mongoc_gridfs_t
on success,
.B NULL
upon failure and
.B error
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.