.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_POOL_SET_SSL_OPTS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_pool_set_ssl_opts() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#ifdef MONGOC_ENABLE_SSL
void
mongoc_client_pool_set_ssl_opts (mongoc_client_pool_t   *pool,
                                 const mongoc_ssl_opt_t *opts);
#endif
.fi
.fi

This function is identical to
.B mongoc_client_set_ssl_opts(3)
except for client pools. It ensures that all clients retrieved from
.B mongoc_client_pool_pop(3)
or
.B mongoc_client_pool_try_pop(3)
are configured with the same SSL settings.

It is a programming error to call this function after retrieving a client from the client pool.

Beginning in version 1.2.0, once a pool has any SSL options set, all connections use SSL, even if "ssl=true" is omitted from the MongoDB URI. Before, SSL options were ignored unless "ssl=true" was included in the URI.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
pool
A
.B mongoc_client_pool_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
opts
A
.B mongoc_ssl_opt_t
that will not be modified.
.LP

.SH "AVAILABILITY"

This feature requires that the MongoDB C driver was compiled with
.B \(hy\(hyenable\(hyssl
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.