.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_VALIDATE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_validate() \- This function is a helper function to execute the validate MongoDB command.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_validate (mongoc_collection_t *collection,
                            const bson_t        *options,
                            bson_t              *reply,
                            bson_error_t        *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
options
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
reply
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function is a helper function to execute the
.B validate
MongoDB command.

Currently, the only supported options are
.B full
, which is a boolean and
.B scandata
, also a boolean.

See the MongoDB documentation for more information on this command.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if successful, otherwise false and error is set.

.B reply
is always initialized and must be destroyed with
.B bson_destroy(3)
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.