.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_CREATE_BULK_OPERATION" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_create_bulk_operation() \- This function shall begin a new bulk operation. After creating this you may call various functions such as mongoc_bulk_operation_update(), mongoc_bulk_operation_insert() and others.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_bulk_operation_t *
mongoc_collection_create_bulk_operation (
      mongoc_collection_t          *collection,
      bool                          ordered,
      const mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern)
   BSON_GNUC_WARN_UNUSED_RESULT;
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
ordered
If the operations must be performed in order.
.LP
.TP
.B
write_concern
An optional
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall begin a new bulk operation. After creating this you may call various functions such as
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_update(3)
,
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_insert(3)
and others.

After calling
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_execute(3)
the commands will be executed in as large as batches as reasonable by the client.

If
.B ordered
is true, then processing will stop at the first error.

If
.B ordered
is not true, then the bulk operation will attempt to continue processing even after the first failure.

.B write_concern
contains the write concern for all operations in the bulk operation. If
.B NULL
, the collection's write concern is used. The global default is acknowledged writes: MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_DEFAULT.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated when executing the bulk operation.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_bulk_operation_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.

.B NOTE
.RS
Failure to handle the result of this function is a programming error.
.RE


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.