.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_STREAM_SETSOCKOPT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_stream_setsockopt() \- This function is a wrapper around setsockopt() for streams that wrap sockets.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
int
mongoc_stream_setsockopt (mongoc_stream_t *stream,
                          int              level,
                          int              optname,
                          void            *optval,
                          socklen_t        optlen);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
stream
A
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
level
The level to pass to
.B setsockopt(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
optname
The optname to pass to
.B setsockopt(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
optval
The optval to pass to
.B setsockopt(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
optlen
The optlen to pass to
.B setsockopt(3)
\e&.
.LP

This function is a wrapper around
.B setsockopt(3)
for streams that wrap sockets.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B 0
on success, otherwise
.B \(hy1
and
.B errno
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.