.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_INSERT_BULK" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_insert_bulk() \- This function performs a bulk insert of all of the documents in documents. This function is deprecated as it cannot accurately return which documents may have failed during the bulk insert.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_insert_bulk (mongoc_collection_t          *collection,
                               mongoc_insert_flags_t         flags,
                               const bson_t                **documents,
                               uint32_t                      n_documents,
                               const mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern,
                               bson_error_t                 *error)
   BSON_GNUC_DEPRECATED_FOR (mongoc_collection_create_bulk_operation);
.fi
.fi

.SH "DEPRECATED"

This function is deprecated and should not be used in new code.

Please use
.B mongoc_collection_create_bulk_operation(3)
instead.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A bitwise or of
.B mongoc_insert_flags_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
documents
An array of
.B const bson_t *
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
n_documents
The number of documents in
.B documents
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
write_concern
A
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function performs a bulk insert of all of the documents in
.B documents
\e&. This function is deprecated as it cannot accurately return which documents may have failed during the bulk insert.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if successful, otherwise false and error is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.