.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_write_concern_t \- Write Concern abstraction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B mongoc_write_concern_t
tells the driver what level of acknowledgment to await from the server. The default, MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_DEFAULT, is right for the great majority of applications.

You can specify a write concern on connection objects, database objects, collection objects, or per\(hyoperation.

See
.B Write Concern
on the MongoDB website for more information.

.SH "WRITE CONCERN LEVELS"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_DEFAULT (1)
By default, writes block awaiting acknowledgment from MongoDB. Acknowledged write concern allows clients to catch network, duplicate key, and other errors.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_UNACKNOWLEDGED (0)
With this write concern, MongoDB does not acknowledge the receipt of write operation. Unacknowledged is similar to errors ignored; however, mongoc attempts to receive and handle network errors when possible.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_MAJORITY (majority)
Block until a write has been propagated to a majority of the nodes in the replica set.
.LP
.TP
.B
n
Block until a write has been propagated to at least
.B n
nodes in the replica set.
.LP

.TP
.B
journal
Block until the node receiving the write has committed the journal.
.LP

.SH "DEPRECATION"

The write concern
.B MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_ERRORS_IGNORED
(value \(hy1) is a deprecated synonym for
.B MONGOC_WRITE_CONCERN_W_UNACKNOWLEDGED
(value 0), and will be removed in the next major release.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.