.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_STREAM_FILE_NEW_FOR_PATH" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_stream_file_new_for_path() \- This function shall create a new mongoc_stream_file_t after opening the underlying file with open() or the platform equivalent.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_stream_t *
mongoc_stream_file_new_for_path (const char *path,
                                 int         flags,
                                 int         mode);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
path
The path of the target file.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
Flags to be passed to
.B open(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
mode
An optional mode to be passed to
.B open(3)
when creating a file.
.LP

This function shall create a new
.B mongoc_stream_file_t
after opening the underlying file with
.B open(3)
or the platform equivalent.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B NULL
on failure, otherwise a newly allocated
.B mongoc_stream_file_t
that should be freed with
.B mongoc_stream_destroy(3)
when no longer in use.

.B errno
is set upon failure.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.