.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_STREAM_READ" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_stream_read() \- The mongoc_stream_read() function shall perform a read from a mongoc_stream_t. It's modeled on the API and semantics of read(), though the parameters map only loosely.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_stream_read (mongoc_stream_t *stream,
                    void            *buf,
                    size_t           count,
                    size_t           min_bytes,
                    int32_t          timeout_msec);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
stream
A
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
buf
The buffer to read into.
.LP
.TP
.B
count
The number of bytes to read.
.LP
.TP
.B
min_bytes
The minimum number of bytes to read, or else indicate failure.
.LP
.TP
.B
timeout_msec
The number of milliseconds to wait before failure, a timeout of 0 will not block. If negative, use the default timeout.
.LP

The
.B mongoc_stream_read(3)
function shall perform a read from a
.B mongoc_stream_t
\e&. It's modeled on the API and semantics of
.B read(3)
, though the parameters map only loosely.

.SH "RETURNS"

The
.B mongoc_stream_read
function returns the number of bytes read on success. It returns
.B >= 0
and
.B < min_bytes
when end\(hyof\(hyfile is encountered and
.B \(hy1
on failure.
.B errno
is set upon failure.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.B mongoc_stream_readv(3)

.B mongoc_stream_write(3)

.B mongoc_stream_writev(3)


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.