.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_READ_CONCERN_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_read_concern_t \- Read Concern abstraction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B NOTE
.RS
New in MongoDB 3.2 and mongoc 1.3.0
.RE

The
.B mongoc_read_concern_t
allows clients to choose a level of isolation for their reads. The default, MONGOC_READ_CONCERN_LEVEL_LOCAL, is right for the great majority of applications.

You can specify a read concern on connection objects, database objects, or collection objects.

See
.B readConcern
on the MongoDB website for more information.

Read Concern is only sent to MongoDB when it has explicitly been set by
.B mongoc_read_concern_set_level
to anything other then empty string.

.SH "READ CONCERN LEVELS"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_CONCERN_LEVEL_LOCAL ("local")
Default. The query will return the node’s most recent copy of data. Provides no guarantee that the data has been written to a majority of the nodes.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_READ_CONCERN_LEVEL_MAJORITY ("majority")
The query will return the node’s most recent copy of the data confirmed as having been written to a majority of the nodes.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.