.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_GRIDFS_FILE_READV" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_gridfs_file_readv() \- This function performs a scattered read from file, potentially blocking to read from the MongoDB server.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_gridfs_file_readv (mongoc_gridfs_file_t *file,
                          mongoc_iovec_t       *iov,
                          size_t                iovcnt,
                          size_t                min_bytes,
                          uint32_t              timeout_msec);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
file
A
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iov
An array of
.B mongoc_iovec_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iovcnt
The number of elements in
.B iov
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
min_bytes
The minimum number of bytes that must be read or an error will be synthesized.
.LP
.TP
.B
timeout_msec
A uint32_t with the timeout in milliseconds.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function performs a scattered read from
.B file
, potentially blocking to read from the MongoDB server.

Timeout should be the number of milliseconds to allow blocking, or 0 to disallow blocking.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns the number of bytes read, or \(hy1 on failure. Use
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_error
to retrieve error details.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.