.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_SOCKET_SEND" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_socket_send() \- Sends buflen bytes in buf to the destination. If a timeout expired, the number of bytes sent will be returned or -1 if no bytes were sent.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_socket_send (mongoc_socket_t *sock,
                    const void      *buf,
                    size_t           buflen,
                    int64_t          expire_at);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
sock
A
.B mongoc_socket_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
buf
A buffer to send.
.LP
.TP
.B
buflen
A size_t with the number of bytes in buf.
.LP
.TP
.B
expire_at
A int64_t with an absolute timeout for the operation or 0. The timeout is in monotonic time using microseconds. You can retrieve the current monotonic time with
.B bson_get_monotonic_time(3)
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Sends buflen bytes in buf to the destination. If a timeout expired, the number of bytes sent will be returned or \(hy1 if no bytes were sent.

.SH "RETURNS"

\(hy1 on failure and errno is set, or the number of bytes sent.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.