.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_GRIDFS_FILE_WRITEV" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_gridfs_file_writev() \- Performs a gathered write to the underlying gridfs file.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_gridfs_file_writev (mongoc_gridfs_file_t *file,
                           mongoc_iovec_t       *iov,
                           size_t                iovcnt,
                           uint32_t              timeout_msec);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
file
A
.B mongoc_gridfs_file_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iov
An array of
.B mongoc_iovec_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iovcnt
The number of elements in
.B iov
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
timeout_msec
A uint32_t with the timeout in milliseconds.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Performs a gathered write to the underlying gridfs file.

If timeout is reached, then \(hy1 is returned and errno is set to ETIMEDOUT.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns the number of bytes written or \(hy1 upon error and errno is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.