.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_SOCKET_SENDV" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_socket_sendv() \- Sends a vector of buffers to the destination. This uses sendmsg() when available to perform a gathered write. If IOV_MAX is reached, a fallback will be used.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
ssize_t
mongoc_socket_sendv (mongoc_socket_t *sock,
                     mongoc_iovec_t  *iov,
                     size_t           iovcnt,
                     int64_t          expire_at);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
sock
A
.B mongoc_socket_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
iov
A mongoc_iovec_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
iovcnt
A size_t containing the number of elements in iov.
.LP
.TP
.B
expire_at
A int64_t with absolute timeout in monotonic time. The monotonic clock is in microseconds and can be fetched using
.B bson_get_monotonic_time(3)
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Sends a vector of buffers to the destination. This uses
.B sendmsg(3)
when available to perform a gathered write. If IOV_MAX is reached, a fallback will be used.

.SH "RETURNS"

the number of bytes sent on success, or \(hy1 on failure and errno is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.