.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_GRIDFS_FILE_LIST_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t \- mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t provides a gridfs file list abstraction.  It provides iteration and basic marshalling on top of a regular mongoc_collection_find() style query. In interface, it's styled after mongoc_cursor_t.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#include <mongoc.h>

typedef struct _mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t;
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t
provides a gridfs file list abstraction.  It provides iteration and basic marshalling on top of a regular
.B mongoc_collection_find(3)
style query. In interface, it's styled after
.B mongoc_cursor_t
\e&.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
.nf
mongoc_gridfs_file_list_t *list;
mongoc_gridfs_file_t *file;

list = mongoc_gridfs_find (gridfs, query);

while ((file = mongoc_gridfs_file_list_next (list))) {
   do_something(file);

   mongoc_gridfs_file_destroy (file);
}

mongoc_gridfs_file_list_destroy (list);
.fi
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.