.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_REPLY_FLAGS_T" "3" "2016\(hy01\(hy14" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_reply_flags_t \- Flags for deletion operations
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef enum
{
   MONGOC_REPLY_NONE               = 0,
   MONGOC_REPLY_CURSOR_NOT_FOUND   = 1 << 0,
   MONGOC_REPLY_QUERY_FAILURE      = 1 << 1,
   MONGOC_REPLY_SHARD_CONFIG_STALE = 1 << 2,
   MONGOC_REPLY_AWAIT_CAPABLE      = 1 << 3,
} mongoc_reply_flags_t;
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

These flags correspond to the wire protocol. They may be bitwise or'd together.

.SH "FLAG VALUES"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_REPLY_NONE
No flags set.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_REPLY_CURSOR_NOT_FOUND
No matching cursor was found on the server.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_REPLY_QUERY_FAILURE
The query failed or was invalid. Error document has been provided.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_REPLY_SHARD_CONFIG_STALE
Shard config is stale.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_REPLY_AWAIT_CAPABLE
If the returned cursor is capable of MONGOC_QUERY_AWAIT_DATA.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.