.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_INSERT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_insert() \- This function shall insert document into collection.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_insert (mongoc_collection_t          *collection,
                          mongoc_insert_flags_t         flags,
                          const bson_t                 *document,
                          const mongoc_write_concern_t *write_concern,
                          bson_error_t                 *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A
.B mongoc_insert_flags_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
document
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
write_concern
A
.B mongoc_write_concern_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall insert
.B document
into
.B collection
\e&.

If no
.B _id
element is found in
.B document
, then a
.B bson_oid_t
will be generated locally and added to the document.

You can retrieve a generated
.B _id
from
.B mongoc_collection_get_last_error(3)
\e&.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the document was successfully inserted, otherwise false and
.B error
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.