.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_OPTS_SET_FLAGS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_set_flags() \- Adds one or more flags to the builder.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_set_flags (mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_t         *opts,
                                       const mongoc_find_and_modify_flags_t   flags);
.fi
.fi

.B NOTE
.RS
New in mongoc 1.3.0
.RE

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
opts
A
.B mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Adds one or more flags to the builder.

.TP
.B
MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_NONE
Default. Doesn't add anything to the builder.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_REMOVE
Will instruct find_and_modify to remove the matching document.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_UPSERT
Update the matching document or, if no document matches, insert the document.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_RETURN_NEW
Return the resulting document.
.LP

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true if it successfully added the option to the builder.

.SH "SETTING FLAGS"

.nf

void fam_flags(mongoc_collection_t *collection)
{
   mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_t *opts;
   bson_t reply;
   bson_error_t error;
   bson_t query = BSON_INITIALIZER;
   bson_t *update;
   bool success;


   /* Find Zlatan Ibrahimovic, the striker */
   BSON_APPEND_UTF8 (&query, "firstname", "Zlatan");
   BSON_APPEND_UTF8 (&query, "lastname", "Ibrahimovic");
   BSON_APPEND_UTF8 (&query, "profession", "Football player");
   BSON_APPEND_INT32 (&query, "age", 34);
   BSON_APPEND_INT32 (&query, "goals", (16+35+23+57+16+14+28+84)+(1+6+62));

   /* Add his football position */
   update = BCON_NEW ("$set", "{",
      "position", BCON_UTF8 ("striker"),
   "}");

   opts = mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_new ();

   mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_set_update (opts, update);

   /* Create the document if it didn't exist, and return the updated document */
   mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_set_flags (opts, MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_UPSERT|MONGOC_FIND_AND_MODIFY_RETURN_NEW);

   success = mongoc_collection_find_and_modify_with_opts (collection, &query, opts, &reply, &error);

   if (success) {
      char *str;

      str = bson_as_json (&reply, NULL);
      printf ("%s\en", str);
      bson_free (str);
   } else {
      fprintf(stderr, "Got error: \e"%s\e" on line %d\en", error.message, __LINE__);
   }

   bson_destroy (&reply);
   bson_destroy (update);
   bson_destroy (&query);
   mongoc_find_and_modify_opts_destroy (opts);
}
.fi

Outputs:

.nf
{
    "lastErrorObject": {
        "updatedExisting": false,
        "n": 1,
        "upserted": {
            "$oid": "56562a99d13e6d86239c7b00"
        }
    },
    "value": {
        "_id": {
            "$oid": "56562a99d13e6d86239c7b00"
        },
        "age": 34,
        "firstname": "Zlatan",
        "goals": 342,
        "lastname": "Ibrahimovic",
        "profession": "Football player",
        "position": "striker"
    },
    "ok": 1
}
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.