.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_COLLECTION_CREATE_INDEX" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_collection_create_index() \- This function will request the creation of a new index.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
mongoc_collection_create_index (mongoc_collection_t      *collection,
                                const bson_t             *keys,
                                const mongoc_index_opt_t *opt,
                                bson_error_t             *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
collection
A
.B mongoc_collection_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
keys
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
opt
A mongoc_index_opt_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function will request the creation of a new index.

This function will use the
.B createIndexes
command if available on the MongoDB server. If not, it will fallback to inserting into system.indexes for compatibility with MongoDB <= 2.4.

See
.B mongoc_index_opt_t
for options on creating indexes.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

true on success, false on failure and error is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.