.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_QUERY_FLAGS_T" "3" "2016\(hy01\(hy14" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_query_flags_t \- Flags for deletion operations
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef enum
{
   MONGOC_QUERY_NONE              = 0,
   MONGOC_QUERY_TAILABLE_CURSOR   = 1 << 1,
   MONGOC_QUERY_SLAVE_OK          = 1 << 2,
   MONGOC_QUERY_OPLOG_REPLAY      = 1 << 3,
   MONGOC_QUERY_NO_CURSOR_TIMEOUT = 1 << 4,
   MONGOC_QUERY_AWAIT_DATA        = 1 << 5,
   MONGOC_QUERY_EXHAUST           = 1 << 6,
   MONGOC_QUERY_PARTIAL           = 1 << 7,
} mongoc_query_flags_t;
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

These flags correspond to the MongoDB wire protocol. They may be bitwise or'd together. They may modify how a query is performed in the MongoDB server.

.SH "FLAG VALUES"

.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_NONE
Specify no query flags.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_TAILABLE_CURSOR
Cursor will not be closed when the last data is retrieved. You can resume this cursor later.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_SLAVE_OK
Allow query of replica set secondaries.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_OPLOG_REPLAY
Used internally by MongoDB.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_NO_CURSOR_TIMEOUT
The server normally times out an idle cursor after an inactivity period (10 minutes). This prevents that.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_AWAIT_DATA
Use with MONGOC_QUERY_TAILABLE_CURSOR. Block rather than returning no data. After a period, time out.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_EXHAUST
Stream the data down full blast in multiple "reply" packets. Faster when you are pulling down a lot of data and you know you want to retrieve it all.
.LP
.TP
.B
MONGOC_QUERY_PARTIAL
Get partial results from mongos if some shards are down (instead of throwing an error).
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.