.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "MONGOC_CLIENT_SET_STREAM_INITIATOR" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "MongoDB C Driver"
.SH NAME
mongoc_client_set_stream_initiator() \- None
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
void
mongoc_client_set_stream_initiator (mongoc_client_t          *client,
                                    mongoc_stream_initiator_t initiator,
                                    void                     *user_data);
.fi
.fi

The
.B mongoc_client_set_stream_initiator(3)
function shall associate a given
.B mongoc_client_t
with a new stream initiator. This will completely replace the default transport
(buffered TCP, possibly with TLS). The
.B initiator
should fulfill the
.B mongoc_stream_t
contract.
.B user_data
is passed through to the
.B initiator
callback and may
be used for whatever run time customization is necessary.

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
client
A
.B mongoc_client_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
initiator
A
.B mongoc_stream_initiator_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
user_data
User supplied pointer for callback function.
.LP


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of MongoDB C Driver.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.