.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_REALLOC_FUNC" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_realloc_func \- This is a prototype for pluggable realloc functions used through the Libbson library. If you wish to use a custom allocator this is one way to do it. Additionally, bson_realloc_ctx() is a default implementation of this prototype.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef void *(*bson_realloc_func) (void   *mem,
                                    size_t  num_bytes,
                                    void   *ctx);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B mem
A memory region.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B num_bytes
A size_t containing the requested size.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B ctx
A consumer\(hyspecific pointer or
.B NULL
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This is a prototype for pluggable realloc functions used through the Libbson library. If you wish to use a custom allocator this is one way to do it. Additionally,
.B bson_realloc_ctx(3)
is a default implementation of this prototype.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.