.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_INIT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_init() \- The bson_iter_init() function shall initialize iter to iterate upon the BSON document bson. Upon initialization, iter is placed before the first element. Callers must call bson_iter_next(), bson_iter_find(), or bson_iter_find_case() to advance to an element.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_iter_init (bson_iter_t  *iter,
                const bson_t *bson);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_init(3)
function shall initialize
.B iter
to iterate upon the BSON document
.B bson
\e&. Upon initialization,
.B iter
is placed before the first element. Callers must call
.B bson_iter_next(3)
,
.B bson_iter_find(3)
, or
.B bson_iter_find_case(3)
to advance to an element.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true if the iter was successfuly initialized.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
.nf
static void
print_doc_id (const bson_t *doc)
{
   bson_iter_t iter;
   bson_oid_t oid;
   char oidstr[25];

   if (bson_iter_init (&iter, doc) &&
       bson_iter_find (&iter, "_id") &&
       BSON_ITER_HOLDS_OID (&iter)) {
      bson_iter_oid (&iter, &oid);
      bson_oid_to_string (&oid, oidstr);
      printf ("%s\en", oidstr);
   } else {
      printf ("Document is missing _id.\en");
   }
}

/* alternatively */

static void
print_doc_id (const bson_t *doc)
{
   bson_iter_t iter;
   bson_oid_t oid;
   char oidstr[25];

   if (bson_iter_init_find (&iter, doc, "_id") &&
       BSON_ITER_HOLDS_OID (&iter)) {
      bson_iter_oid (&iter, &oid);
      bson_oid_to_string (&oid, oidstr);
      printf ("%s\en", oidstr);
   } else {
      printf ("Document is missing _id.\en");
   }
}
.fi
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.