.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_COPY_TO_EXCLUDING" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_copy_to_excluding() \- The bson_copy_to_excluding() function shall copy all fields from src to dst except those speified by the variadic, NULL terminated list of keys starting from first_exclude.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
void
bson_copy_to_excluding (const bson_t *src,
                        bson_t       *dst,
                        const char   *first_exclude,
                        ...) BSON_GNUC_NULL_TERMINATED;
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
src
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
dst
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
first_exclude
The first field name to exclude.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_copy_to_excluding(3)
function shall copy all fields from
.B src
to
.B dst
except those speified by the variadic, NULL terminated list of keys starting from
.B first_exclude
\e&.

.B NOTE
.RS
This is generally not needed except in very special situations.
.RE


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.