.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_DBPOINTER" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_dbpointer() \- The dbpointer field type is DEPRECATED and should only be used when interacting with legacy systems.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_dbpointer (bson_t           *bson,
                       const char       *key,
                       int               key_length,
                       const char       *collection,
                       const bson_oid_t *oid);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
collection
The target collection name.
.LP
.TP
.B
oid
The target document identifer.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B NOTE
.RS
The dbpointer field type is
.B DEPRECATED
and should only be used when interacting with legacy systems.
.RE

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.