.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_VALIDATE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_validate() \- Validates a BSON document by walking through the document and inspecting the fields for valid content.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef enum
{
   BSON_VALIDATE_NONE            = 0,
   BSON_VALIDATE_UTF8            = (1 << 0),
   BSON_VALIDATE_DOLLAR_KEYS     = (1 << 1),
   BSON_VALIDATE_DOT_KEYS        = (1 << 2),
   BSON_VALIDATE_UTF8_ALLOW_NULL = (1 << 3),
} bson_validate_flags_t;

bool
bson_validate (const bson_t         *bson,
               bson_validate_flags_t flags,
               size_t               *offset);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
flags
A bitwise\(hyor of all desired
.B bson_validate_flags_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
offset
A location for the offset within
.B bson
where the error ocurred.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Validates a BSON document by walking through the document and inspecting the fields for valid content.

You can modify how the validation occurs through the use of the
.B flags
parameter. A description of their effect is below.

.IP \e[bu] 2
.B BSON_VALIDATE_UTF8
will request that all UTF\(hy8 strings are checked to contain valid UTF\(hy8 sequences. This is expensive and disabled by default.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B BSON_VALIDATE_UTF8_ALLOW_NULL
will specify that UTF\(hy8 strings are allowed to have embedded NULL bytes. Many UTF\(hy8 implementations use a 2\(hybyte squence for embedded NULLs so that they work with stanard libc functions. Libbson expects this by default.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B BSON_VALIDATE_DOLLAR_KEYS
will request that all key names are checked to ensure they do not start with the ASCII dollar character (
.B $
).
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B BSON_VALIDATE_DOT_KEYS
will request that all key names are checked to ensure they do not contain an ASCII dot (
.B .
) character.

.SH "RETURNS"

Returns true if
.B bson
is valid; otherwise false and
.B offset
is set to the byte offset where the error was detected.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.