.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_CODEWSCOPE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_codewscope() \- The bson_iter_codewscope() function acts similar to bson_iter_code() except for BSON_TYPE_CODEWSCOPE elements. It also will provide a pointer to the buffer for scope, which can be loaded into a bson_t using bson_init_static().
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#define BSON_ITER_HOLDS_CODEWSCOPE(iter) \e
   (bson_iter_type ((iter)) == BSON_TYPE_CODEWSCOPE)

const char *
bson_iter_codewscope (const bson_iter_t *iter,
                      uint32_t          *length,
                      uint32_t          *scope_len,
                      const uint8_t    **scope);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
length
An optional location for the length of the resulting UTF\(hy8 encoded string.
.LP
.TP
.B
scope_len
A optional location for the length of
.B scope
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
scope
An optional location to store the immutable raw scope BSON document.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_codewscope(3)
function acts similar to
.B bson_iter_code(3)
except for BSON_TYPE_CODEWSCOPE elements. It also will provide a pointer to the buffer for scope, which can be loaded into a
.B bson_t
using
.B bson_init_static(3)
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

An UTF\(hy8 encoded string containing the JavaScript code which should not be modified or freed.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.