.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_DOCUMENT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_document() \- The bson_iter_document() function shall retrieve the raw buffer of a sub-document from iter. iter MUST be on an element that is of type BSON_TYPE_DOCUMENT. This can be verified with bson_iter_type() or the BSON_ITER_HOLDS_DOCUMENT() macro.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#define BSON_ITER_HOLDS_DOCUMENT(iter) \e
   (bson_iter_type ((iter)) == BSON_TYPE_DOCUMENT)

void
bson_iter_document (const bson_iter_t *iter,
                    uint32_t          *document_len,
                    const uint8_t    **document);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
document_len
A location for the length of the document in bytes.
.LP
.TP
.B
document
A location for the document buffer.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_document(3)
function shall retrieve the raw buffer of a sub\(hydocument from
.B iter
\e&.
.B iter

.B MUST
be on an element that is of type BSON_TYPE_DOCUMENT. This can be verified with
.B bson_iter_type(3)
or the
.B BSON_ITER_HOLDS_DOCUMENT(3)
macro.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.