.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_TIMESTAMP" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_timestamp() \- This function is not similar in functionality to bson_append_date_time(). Timestamp elements are different in that they include only second precision and an increment field.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_timestamp (bson_t     *bson,
                       const char *key,
                       int         key_length,
                       uint32_t    timestamp,
                       uint32_t    increment);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
timestamp
A uint32_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
increment
A uint32_t.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function is not similar in functionality to
.B bson_append_date_time(3)
\e&. Timestamp elements are different in that they include only second precision and an increment field.

They are primarily used for intra\(hyMongoDB server communication.

The
.B bson_append_timestamp(3)
function shall append a new element of type BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.