.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_CODE_WITH_SCOPE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_code_with_scope() \- The bson_append_code_with_scope() function shall perform like bson_append_code() except it allows providing a scope to the javascript function in the form of a bson document.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_code_with_scope (bson_t       *bson,
                             const char   *key,
                             int           key_length,
                             const char   *javascript,
                             const bson_t *scope);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
javascript
A NULL\(hyterminated UTF\(hy8 encoded string containing the javascript fragment.
.LP
.TP
.B
scope
A
.B bson_t
containing the scope for
.B javascript
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_code_with_scope(3)
function shall perform like
.B bson_append_code(3)
except it allows providing a scope to the javascript function in the form of a bson document.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.