.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_UINT32_TO_STRING" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_uint32_to_string() \- Converts value to a string.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
size_t
bson_uint32_to_string (uint32_t     value,
                       const char **strptr,
                       char        *str,
                       size_t       size);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B value
A uint32_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B strptr
A location for the resulting string pointer.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B str
A location to buffer the string.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B size
A size_t containing the size of
.B str
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Converts
.B value
to a string.

If
.B value
is from 0 to 999, it will use a constant string in the data section of the library.

If not, a string will be formatted using
.B str
and
.B snprintf(3)
\e&.

.B strptr
will always be set. It will either point to
.B str
or a constant string. You will want to use this as your key.

.SH "RETURNS"

The number of bytes in the resulting string.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.