.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_DOCUMENT_BEGIN" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_document_begin() \- The bson_append_document_begin() function shall begin appending a sub-document to bson. Use child to add fields to the sub-document. When completed, call bson_append_document_end() to complete the element.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_document_begin (bson_t     *bson,
                            const char *key,
                            int         key_length,
                            bson_t     *child);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
child
An uninitialized
.B bson_t
to be initialized as the sub\(hydocument.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_document_begin(3)
function shall begin appending a sub\(hydocument to
.B bson
\e&. Use
.B child
to add fields to the sub\(hydocument. When completed, call
.B bson_append_document_end(3)
to complete the element.

.B child

.B MUST
be an uninitialized
.B bson_t
to avoid leaking memory.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.