.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_READER_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_reader_t \- Streaming BSON Document Reader
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#include <bson.h>

typedef struct _bson_reader_t bson_reader_t;

bson_reader_t *bson_reader_new_from_handle (void *handle,
                                            bson_reader_read_func_t rf,
                                            bson_reader_destroy_func_t df);
bson_reader_t *bson_reader_new_from_fd     (int fd,
                                            bool close_on_destroy);
bson_reader_t *bson_reader_new_from_file   (const char *path,
                                            bson_error_t *error);
bson_reader_t *bson_reader_new_from_data   (const uint8_t *data,
                                            size_t length);

void           bson_reader_destroy         (bson_reader_t *reader);
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B bson_reader_t
is a structure used for reading a sequence of BSON documents. The sequence can come from a file\(hydescriptor, memory region, or custom callbacks.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
.nf

/*
 * Copyright 2013 MongoDB, Inc.
 *
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE\(hy2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */


/*
 * This program will print each BSON document contained in the provided files
 * as a JSON string to STDOUT.
 */


#include <bson.h>
#include <stdio.h>


int
main (int   argc,
      char *argv[])
{
   bson_reader_t *reader;
   const bson_t *b;
   bson_error_t error;
   const char *filename;
   char *str;
   int i;

   /*
    * Print program usage if no arguments are provided.
    */
   if (argc == 1) {
      fprintf(stderr,
              "usage: %s [FILE | \(hy]...\enUse \(hy for STDIN.\en",
              argv[0]);
      return 1;
   }

   /*
    * Process command line arguments expecting each to be a filename.
    */
   for (i = 1; i < argc; i++) {
      filename = argv[i];

      if (strcmp (filename, "\(hy") == 0) {
         reader = bson_reader_new_from_fd (STDIN_FILENO, false);
      } else {
         if (!(reader = bson_reader_new_from_file (filename, &error))) {
            fprintf (stderr, "Failed to open \e"%s\e": %s\en",
                     filename, error.message);
            continue;
         }
      }

      /*
       * Convert each incoming document to JSON and print to stdout.
       */
      while ((b = bson_reader_read (reader, NULL))) {
         str = bson_as_json(b, NULL);
         fprintf(stdout, "%s\en", str);
         bson_free(str);
      }

      /*
       * Cleanup after our reader, which closes the file descriptor.
       */
      bson_reader_destroy (reader);
   }

   return 0;
}
.fi
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.