.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_RECURSE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_recurse() \- The bson_iter_recurse() function shall initialize child using the embedded document or array currently observed by iter.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_iter_recurse (const bson_iter_t *iter,
                   bson_iter_t       *child);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
child
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_recurse(3)
function shall initialize
.B child
using the embedded document or array currently observed by
.B iter
\e&.

If there was a failure to initialize the
.B iter
, false is returned and both
.B iter
and
.B child
should be considered invalid.

This should only be called when observing an element of type BSON_TYPE_ARRAY or BSON_TYPE_DOCUMENT.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if
.B child
has been intialized. Otherwise, both
.B child
and
.B iter
should be considered invalid.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.