.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_DATE_TIME" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_date_time() \- The bson_append_date_time() function shall append a new element to a bson document containing a date and time with no timezone information. value is assumed to be in UTC format of milliseconds since the UNIX epoch. value MAY be negative.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_date_time (bson_t     *bson,
                       const char *key,
                       int         key_length,
                       int64_t     value);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
value
The date and time as specified in milliseconds since the UNIX epoch.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_date_time(3)
function shall append a new element to a
.B bson
document containing a date and time with no timezone information.
.B value
is assumed to be in UTC format of milliseconds since the UNIX epoch.
.B value

.B MAY
be negative.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.