.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_CONTEXT_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_context_t \- BSON OID Generation Context
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#include <bson.h>

typedef enum
{
   BSON_CONTEXT_NONE               = 0,
   BSON_CONTEXT_THREAD_SAFE        = (1 << 0),
   BSON_CONTEXT_DISABLE_HOST_CACHE = (1 << 1),
   BSON_CONTEXT_DISABLE_PID_CACHE  = (1 << 2),
#if defined(__linux__)
   BSON_CONTEXT_USE_TASK_ID        = (1 << 3),
#endif
} bson_context_flags_t;

typedef struct _bson_context_t bson_context_t;

bson_context_t *bson_context_get_default (void) BSON_GNUC_CONST;
bson_context_t *bson_context_new         (bson_context_flags_t  flags);
void            bson_context_destroy     (bson_context_t       *context);
.fi
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_context_t
structure is context for generation of BSON Object IDs. This context allows for specialized overriding of how ObjectIDs are generated based on the applications requirements. For example, disabling of PID caching can be configured if the application cannot detect when a call to
.B fork(3)
has occurred.
\e&.
.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
.nf
#include <bson.h>

int main (int argc, char *argv[])
{
   bson_context_t *ctx = NULL;
   bson_oid_t oid;

   /* use default context, via bson_context_get_default() */
   bson_oid_init (&oid, NULL);

   /* specify a local context for additional control */
   ctx = bson_context_new (BSON_CONTEXT_DISABLE_PID_CACHE | BSON_CONTEXT_THREAD_SAFE);
   bson_oid_init (&oid, ctx);

   bson_context_destroy (ctx);

   return 0;
}
.fi
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.