.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_BINARY" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_binary() \- The bson_append_binary() function shall append a new element to bson containing the binary data provided.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_binary (bson_t        *bson,
                    const char    *key,
                    int            key_length,
                    bson_subtype_t subtype,
                    const uint8_t *binary,
                    uint32_t       length);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
The key name.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes or \(hy1 to use strlen().
.LP
.TP
.B
subtype
A bson_subtype_t indicationg the binary subtype.
.LP
.TP
.B
binary
A buffer to embed as binary data.
.LP
.TP
.B
length
The length of
.B buffer
in bytes.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_binary(3)
function shall append a new element to
.B bson
containing the binary data provided.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.