.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_CODE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_code() \- The bson_append_code() function shall append a new element to bson using the UTF-8 encoded javascript provided. javascript must be a NULL terminated C string.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_code (bson_t     *bson,
                  const char *key,
                  int         key_length,
                  const char *javascript);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
The key name.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
or \(hy1 to use strlen().
.LP
.TP
.B
javascript
A UTF\(hy8 encoded string containing the javascript.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_code(3)
function shall append a new element to
.B bson
using the UTF\(hy8 encoded
.B javascript
provided.
.B javascript
must be a NULL terminated C string.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.