.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_WRITER_NEW" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_writer_new() \- Creates a new instance of bson_writer_t using the buffer, length, offset, and _realloc()_ function supplied.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bson_writer_t *
bson_writer_new (uint8_t         **buf,
                 size_t           *buflen,
                 size_t            offset,
                 bson_realloc_func realloc_func,
                 void             *realloc_func_ctx);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B buf
A uint8_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B buflen
A size_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B offset
A size_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B realloc_func
A bson_realloc_func.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B realloc_func_ctx
A bson_realloc_func.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Creates a new instance of
.B bson_writer_t
using the
.B buffer
,
.B length
,
.B offset
, and _realloc()_ function supplied.

The caller is expected to clean up the structure when finished using
.B bson_writer_destroy(3)
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated bson_writer_t.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.