.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_TIMESTAMP" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_timestamp() \- The BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP type is not a date/time and is typically used for intra-server communication.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#define BSON_ITER_HOLDS_TIMESTAMP(iter) \e
   (bson_iter_type ((iter)) == BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP)

void
bson_iter_timestamp (const bson_iter_t *iter,
                     uint32_t          *timestamp,
                     uint32_t          *increment);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
timestamp
A uint32_t.
.LP
.TP
.B
increment
A uint32_t.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP type is not a date/time and is typically used for intra\(hyserver communication.

You probably want
.B bson_iter_date_time(3)
\e&.

The
.B bson_iter_timestamp(3)
function shall return the contents of a BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP element. It is invalid to call this function while observing an element that is not of type BSON_TYPE_TIMESTAMP.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.