.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_READER_NEW_FROM_FD" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_reader_new_from_fd() \- The bson_reader_new_from_fd() function shall create a new bson_reader_t that will read from the provided file-descriptor.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bson_reader_t *
bson_reader_new_from_fd (int  fd,
                         bool close_on_destroy);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B fd
A valid file\(hydescriptor.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B close_on_destroy
Whether
.B close(3)
should be called on
.B fd
when the reader is destroyed.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_reader_new_from_fd(3)
function shall create a new
.B bson_reader_t
that will read from the provided file\(hydescriptor.

fd
.B MUST
be in blocking mode.

If
.B close_fd
is true, then
.B fd
will be closed when the
.B bson_reader_t
is destroyed with
.B bson_reader_destroy(3)
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B bson_reader_t
that should be freed with
.B bson_reader_destroy
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.