.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_REGEX" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_regex() \- Appends a new field to bson of type BSON_TYPE_REGEX. regex should be the regex string. options should contain the options for the regex.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_regex (bson_t     *bson,
                   const char *key,
                   int         key_length,
                   const char *regex,
                   const char *options);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
regex
An ASCII string containing the regex.
.LP
.TP
.B
options
An optional string containing the regex options as a string.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Appends a new field to
.B bson
of type BSON_TYPE_REGEX.
.B regex
should be the regex string.
.B options
should contain the options for the regex.

Valid characters for
.B options
include:

.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 'i'
for case\(hyinsensitive.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 'm'
for multiple matching.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 'x'
for verbose mode.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 'l'
to make \ew and \eW locale dependent.
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 's'
for dotall mode ('.' matches everything)
.IP \e[bu] 2
.B 'u'
to make \ew and \eW match unicode.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.