.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_NEW_FROM_JSON" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_new_from_json() \- The bson_new_from_json() function allocates and initialize a new bson_t by parsing the JSON found in data. Only a single JSON object may exist in data or an error will be set and NULL returned.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bson_t *
bson_new_from_json (const uint8_t *data,
                    ssize_t        len,
                    bson_error_t  *error);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
data
A UTF\(hy8 encoded string containing valid JSON.
.LP
.TP
.B
len
The length of
.B data
in bytes excluding a trailing
.B \e0
or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
error
An optional location for a
.B bson_error_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_new_from_json(3)
function allocates and initialize a new
.B bson_t
by parsing the JSON found in
.B data
\e&. Only a single JSON object may exist in
.B data
or an error will be set and NULL returned.

.SH "ERRORS"

Errors are propagated via the
.B error
parameter.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated
.B bson_t
if successful, otherwise NULL and
.B error
is set.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.