.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_FIND" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_find() \- The bson_iter_find()function shall advance iterto the element named keyor exhaust all elements of iter. If iteris exhausted, false is returned and itershould be considered invalid.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_iter_find (bson_iter_t *iter,
                const char  *key);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
A string containing the requested key.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_find(3)
function shall advance
.B iter
to the element named
.B key
or exhaust all elements of
.B iter
\e&. If
.B iter
is exhausted, false is returned and
.B iter
should be considered invalid.

.B key
is case\(hysensitive. For a case\(hyfolded version, see
.B bson_iter_find_case(3)
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

true is returned if the requested key was found. If not,
.B iter
was exhausted and should now be considered invalid.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.