.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_UNDEFINED" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_undefined() \- The bson_append_undefined() function shall append a new element to bson of type BSON_TYPE_UNDEFINED. Undefined is common in Javascript. However, this element type is deprecated and should not be used in new code.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_undefined (bson_t     *bson,
                       const char *key,
                       int         key_length);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_undefined(3)
function shall append a new element to
.B bson
of type BSON_TYPE_UNDEFINED. Undefined is common in Javascript. However, this element type is deprecated and should not be used in new code.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.