.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_INIT_STATIC" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_init_static() \- The bson_init_static() function shall shall initialize a read-only bson_t on the stack using the data provided. No copies of the data will be made and therefore must remain valid for the lifetime of the bson_t.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_init_static (bson_t        *b,
                  const uint8_t *data,
                  size_t         length);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
b
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
data
A buffer to initialize with.
.LP
.TP
.B
length
The length of
.B data
in bytes.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_init_static(3)
function shall shall initialize a read\(hyonly
.B bson_t
on the stack using the data provided. No copies of the data will be made and therefore must remain valid for the lifetime of the
.B bson_t
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

.B bson_init_static(3)
will return
.B true
if the
.B bson_t
was successfully initialized.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.