.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_VALUE" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_value() \- Appends a new field to bson by determining the boxed type in value. This is useful if you want to copy fields between documents but do not know the field type until runtime.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_value (bson_t             *bson,
                   const char         *key,
                   int                 key_length,
                   const bson_value_t *value);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
value
A
.B bson_value_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Appends a new field to
.B bson
by determining the boxed type in
.B value
\e&. This is useful if you want to copy fields between documents but do not know the field type until runtime.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.