.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_READER_READ" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_reader_read() \- The bson_reader_read() function shall read the next document from the underlying file-descriptor or buffer.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
const bson_t *
bson_reader_read (bson_reader_t *reader,
                  bool          *reached_eof);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B reader
A
.B bson_reader_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B reached_eof
A UNKNOWN.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_reader_read(3)
function shall read the next document from the underlying file\(hydescriptor or buffer.

If there are no further documents or a failure was detected, then NULL is returned.

If we reached the end of the sequence,
.B reached_eof
is set to true.

To detect an error, check for NULL and
.B reached_of
is false.

.SH "RETURNS"

A
.B bson_t
that should not be modified or freed.

.SH "EXAMPLE"

.nf
.nf
const bson_t *doc;
bool reached_eof = false;

while ((doc = bson_reader_read (reader, &reached_eof))) {
	/* do something */
}

if (!reached_eof) {
	fprintf (stderr, "Failed to read all documents.\en");
}
.fi
.fi


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.