.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_FIND_DESCENDANT" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_find_descendant() \- The bson_iter_find_descendant() function shall follow standard MongoDB dot notation to recurse into subdocuments. descendant will be initialized and advanced to the descendant. If false is returned, both iter and descendant should be considered invalid.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_iter_find_descendant (bson_iter_t *iter,
                           const char  *dotkey,
                           bson_iter_t *descendant);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
dotkey
A dot\(hynotation key like
.B "a.b.c.d"
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
descendant
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_iter_find_descendant(3)
function shall follow standard MongoDB dot notation to recurse into subdocuments.
.B descendant
will be initialized and advanced to the descendant. If false is returned, both
.B iter
and
.B descendant
should be considered invalid.

.SH "RETURNS"

true is returned if the requested key was found. If not, false is returned and
.B iter
was exhausted and should now be considered invalid.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.