.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_READER_READ_FUNC_T" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_reader_read_func_t \- A callback function that will be called by bson_reader_t to read the next chunk of data from the underlying opaque file descriptor.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
typedef ssize_t (*bson_reader_read_func_t) (void  *handle,
                                            void  *buf,
                                            size_t count);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B handle
The handle to read from.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B buf
The buffer to read into.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B count
The number of bytes to read.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

A callback function that will be called by
.B bson_reader_t
to read the next chunk of data from the underlying opaque file descriptor.

This function is meant to operate similar to the
.B read(2)
function as part of libc on UNIX\(hylike systems.

.SH "RETURNS"

0 for end of stream.

\(hy1 for a failure on read.

A value greater than zero for the number of bytes read into
.B buf
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.