.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_JSON_READER_NEW" "3" "2016\(hy02\(hy04" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_json_reader_new() \- Creates a new bson_json_reader_t that can read from an arbitrary data source in a streaming fashion.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bson_json_reader_t *
bson_json_reader_new (void                *data,
                      bson_json_reader_cb  cb,
                      bson_json_destroy_cb dcb,
                      bool                 allow_multiple,
                      size_t               buf_size);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
.B data
A user\(hydefined pointer.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B cb
A bson_json_reader_cb.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B dcb
A bson_json_destroy_cb.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B allow_multiple
A bool indicating if more than one document is allowed in the stream.
.LP
.TP
.B
.B buf_size
A size_t containing the requested internal buffer size.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Creates a new bson_json_reader_t that can read from an arbitrary data source in a streaming fashion.

.SH "RETURNS"

A newly allocated bson_json_reader_t that should be freed with bson_json_reader_destroy().


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.