.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_ARRAY" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_array() \- The bson_append_array() function shall append child to bson using the specified key. The type of the field will be an array, but it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure that the keys of child are properly formatted with string keys such as "0", "1", "2" and so forth.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_array (bson_t       *bson,
                   const char   *key,
                   int           key_length,
                   const bson_t *array);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
array
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_array(3)
function shall append
.B child
to
.B bson
using the specified key. The type of the field will be an array, but it is the responsibility of the caller to ensure that the keys of
.B child
are properly formatted with string keys such as "0", "1", "2" and so forth.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.