.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_ARRAY_BEGIN" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_array_begin() \- The bson_append_array_begin() function shall begin appending an array field to bson. This allows for incrementally building a sub-array. Doing so will generally yield better performance as you will serialize to a single buffer. When done building the sub-array, the caller MUST call bson_append_array_end().
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_array_begin (bson_t     *bson,
                         const char *key,
                         int         key_length,
                         bson_t     *child);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
A string containing the name for the key.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
or \(hy1 to call
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
child
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_array_begin(3)
function shall begin appending an array field to
.B bson
\e&. This allows for incrementally building a sub\(hyarray. Doing so will generally yield better performance as you will serialize to a single buffer. When done building the sub\(hyarray, the caller
.B MUST
call
.B bson_append_array_end(3)
\e&.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.