.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_ITER_BINARY" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_iter_binary() \- This function shall return the binary data of a BSON_TYPE_BINARY element. It is a programming error to call this function on a field that is not of type BSON_TYPE_BINARY. You can check this with the BSON_ITER_HOLDS_BINARY() macro or bson_iter_type().
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
#define BSON_ITER_HOLDS_BINARY(iter) \e
   (bson_iter_type ((iter)) == BSON_TYPE_BINARY)

void
bson_iter_binary (const bson_iter_t *iter,
                  bson_subtype_t    *subtype,
                  uint32_t          *binary_len,
                  const uint8_t    **binary);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
iter
A
.B bson_iter_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
subtype
A location for a
.B bson_subtype_t
or NULL.
.LP
.TP
.B
binary_len
A location for the length of
.B binary
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
binary
A location for a pointer to the immutable buffer.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This function shall return the binary data of a BSON_TYPE_BINARY element. It is a programming error to call this function on a field that is not of type BSON_TYPE_BINARY. You can check this with the BSON_ITER_HOLDS_BINARY() macro or
.B bson_iter_type(3)
\e&.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.