.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "BSON_APPEND_MINKEY" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy16" "libbson"
.SH NAME
bson_append_minkey() \- The bson_append_minkey() function shall append an element of type BSON_TYPE_MINKEY to a bson document. This is primarily used in queries and unlikely to be used when storing a document to MongoDB.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.nf
.nf
bool
bson_append_minkey (bson_t     *bson,
                    const char *key,
                    int         key_length);
.fi
.fi

.SH "PARAMETERS"

.TP
.B
bson
A
.B bson_t
\e&.
.LP
.TP
.B
key
An ASCII C string containing the name of the field.
.LP
.TP
.B
key_length
The length of
.B key
in bytes, or \(hy1 to determine the length with
.B strlen(3)
\e&.
.LP

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.B bson_append_minkey(3)
function shall append an element of type BSON_TYPE_MINKEY to a bson document. This is primarily used in queries and unlikely to be used when storing a document to MongoDB.

.SH "RETURNS"

true if the operation was applied successfully, otherwise false and
.B bson
should be discarded.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.