.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "OBJECTIDS" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "libbson"
.SH NAME
ObjectIDs \- None
.SH "COMPOSITION"

.IP \e[bu] 2
4 bytes : The UNIX timestamp in big\(hyendian format.
.IP \e[bu] 2
3 bytes : The first 3 bytes of
.B MD5(hostname)
\e&.
.IP \e[bu] 2
2 bytes : The
.B pid_t
of the current process. Alternatively the task\(hyid if configured.
.IP \e[bu] 2
3 bytes : A 24\(hybit monotonic counter incrementing from
.B rand(3)
in big\(hyendian.

.SH "SORTING OBJECTIDS"

The typical way to sort in C is using
.B qsort(3)
\e&. Therefore, Libbson provides a
.B qsort(3)
compatible callback function named
.B bson_oid_compare(3)
\e&. It returns
.B less than 1
,
.B greater than 1
, or
.B 0
depending on the equality of two
.B bson_oid_t
structures.

.SH "COMPARING OBJECT IDS"

If you simply want to compare two
.B bson_oid_t
structures for equality, use
.B bson_oid_equal(3)
\e&.

.SH "GENERATING"

To generate a
.B bson_oid_t
, you may use the following.


.SH "PARSING OBJECTID STRINGS"

You can also parse a string contianing a
.B bson_oid_t
\e&. The input string
.B MUST
be 24 characters or more in length.


If you need to parse may
.B bson_oid_t
in a tight loop and can guarantee the data is safe, you might consider using the inline variant. It will be inlined into your code and reduce the need for a foreign function call.


.SH "HASHING OBJECTIDS"

If you need to store items in a hashtable, you may want to use the
.B bson_oid_t
as the key. Libbson provides a hash function for just this purpose. It is based on DJB hash.


.SH "FETCHING OBJECTID CREATION TIME"

You can easily fetch the time that a
.B bson_oid_t
was generated using
.B bson_oid_get_time_t(3)
\e&.



.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.