.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 2016 MongoDB, Inc.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
.\" or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
.\" with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
.\" A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
.\" Free Documentation License".
.\" 
.TH "STREAMING_BSON" "3" "2016\(hy03\(hy30" "libbson"
.SH NAME
Streaming_BSON \- None
.SH "READING FROM A BSON STREAM"


.B bson_reader_t
provides a convenient API to read sequential BSON documents from a file\(hydescriptor or memory buffer. The
.B bson_reader_read(3)
function will read forward in the underlying stream and returna
.B bson_t
that can be inspected and iterated upon.


See
.B bson_reader_new_from_fd(3)
,
.B bson_reader_new_from_file(3)
, and
.B bson_reader_new_from_data(3)
for more information.

.SH "WRITING A SEQUENCE OF BSON DOCUMENTS"


.B bson_writer_t
provides a convenient API to write a sequence of BSON documents to a
.B realloc(3)
'able memory buffer. The
.B bson_writer_begin(3)
and
.B bson_writer_end(3)
functions will manage the underlying buffer while building the sequence of documents.

This could also be useful if you want to write to a network packet while serializing the documents from a higher level language, (but do so just after the packets header).


See
.B bson_writer_new(3)
for more information.


.B
.SH COLOPHON
This page is part of libbson.
Please report any bugs at https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/CDRIVER.